# cs-360
Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

The application was designed to be a weight-tracking application with at least three screens: Login, view daily weight and enter daily weight. In this app, users can track their weight and calculate their ideal weight while tracking statistics and graphs to monitor their progress toward their target weight. Users can enter new weight details, update them, delete them, and set their target goals using this app. The app was designed to be user-friendly and help them achieve their target weight. An authentication security feature was implemented in the application to protect the data stored in the user's database.

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

The Weight Tracking App has three main screens for users to interact with, making it user-friendly. The three screens were the login screen, the daily weight display screen, and the weight entering screen. 
 The login screen for the app prompts users for their username and password with options of "Login". The user can either log in if they are already registered or sign up if they are new to the app. This will then automate the next screen, which will be a simple interface prompting the user to input their weight and date after logging in. On the next screen, users are directed to the dashboard, which displays a grid of daily weight entries and options for adding new entries. In this screen,users can add their weight measurements on the Daily weight input screen,  or update or delete the weight record by clicking on the given buttons and set a target weight on the Goal Setting screen. Lastly, the SMS Notifications screen provides updates on progress, such as weight goal completion. Upon achieving the goal, the app will request permission from the user to send the SMS notification. If the user opts out of this feature, he will never have to be reminded about it again. The app offers user-friendly navigation options for optimizing user experience and usability, including direct navigation from the main screen, tab navigation, drawer navigation, and back navigation. It is easy to understand and use my application because of its simplistic design and basic interactive features.
 
How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?

It was required to create at least three tables: one to store daily weights, one to store user log-ins and passwords, and one to store goal weights. 
Usernames and passwords are stored in databases associated with login screens. Passwords and usernames will be entered on the login page and checked against the database for accuracy. Login pages require both a class file and an xml file linking to the database. The weight tracking details and SMS notifications were handled in a similar way, resulting in clean, easy-to-manage files. 
ZyBooks provided me with a large amount of information and skills when it came to coding my app. I learned how to use Andorid Studio correctly to create accessible buttons, create databases, and switch from screen to screen within the application. This course has taught me how to create more user-centered, design-conscious, and methodical apps. This experience certainly prepared me for building other Android Studio apps in the future.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
In order to ensure that each function I wrote was functioning correctly, I tested it using the Android Studio debugger. In Android Studio, I used unit tests primarily to verify individual components and user interactions on an emulator to ensure the code behaved as expected. It is imperative that a safe and secure system is thoroughly tested in all aspects to ensure it is efficient and user-friendly. Testing your app consistently lets you ensure its correctness, functional behavior, and usability before releasing it.

Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

I learned about Android Studio through this assignment.  I like the layout of this IDE, especially since it's very customizable. I encountered a few challenges during the project. In particular, the SQL android development was new and challenging, and I had to study the documentation to add users and items to the database. It took me a while to simplify it because I tried to do too much in the beginning. A great UI design involves many factors, including extensive research, testing, and consideration. Throughout the weeks, as I worked on these projects, I became fascinated with learning more about them. There are so many features, properties, and layouts that it will take me some time to fully comprehend them. The project was fun to work on since you could switch between screens. Moreover, I enjoyed using different layouts and their properties because they piqued my curiosity. The experience of experimenting with different styles, backgrounds, padding, and colors was great. The most important thing I learned from this course was the importance of a user-centered approach and industry-specific standards.

In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

My greatest success was drafting a proper plan of release for my application. Also, I demonstrated my skills by developing the application's core user interface design and interaction flow. Zybooks guided me throughout the entire application development process.  With my acquired knowledge and skills, I have designed my application around the overall user experience.
